>> Woodruff: SURPRISING NEW
NUMBERS SHOW TREMENDOUS MOMENTUM
FOR THE U.S. ECONOMY, REACHING
ITS HIGHEST GROWTH RATE IN A
DECADE.
WE'LL TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT
ECONOMISTS ARE EXPECTING FOR
2015.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD, PERU'S RUINS HAVE
STOOD FOR CENTURIES, BUT EXTREME
EL NINO STORMS THREATEN TO WASH
THEM AWAY.
WE EXPLORE HOW ARCHAEOLOGISTS
ARE BOLSTERING THE DEFENSES OF
THESE ANCIENT TREASURES, PIECE
BY PIECE.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, SIDE BY SIDE
ON THE FRONT LINES OF BATTLE,
SOLDIERS AND THEIR CANINE
COUNTERPARTS FORM A SPECIAL BOND
IN THE FACE OF DANGER.
A LOOK AT MAN'S BEST FRIEND AS
HIS SOURCE OF STRENGTH IN
COMBAT.
>> THEY WERE ON A PATROL AND
COLTON WAS SHOT BY A TALIBAN
SNIPER, AND HE SORT OF FELL
WHERE HE WAS STANDING.
AND THE DOG'S REACTION WAS TO
CLIMB ON TOP OF HIM, ON HIS
FALLEN BODY, AND PROTECT HIM.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: IT TURNS OUT THE
SUMMER SURGE OF ECONOMIC GROWTH
WAS EVEN STRONGER THAN FIRST
THOUGHT.
REVISED FIGURES TODAY SHOWED THE
BEST PERFORMANCE SINCE 2003.
THE GOVERNMENT SAID THE ECONOMY
EXPANDED AT AN ANNUAL RATE OF 5%
FROM JULY THROUGH SEPTEMBER.
THAT WAS EVEN BETTER THAN THE
4.6% SHOWING DURING THE SPRING
MONTHS.
WE'LL TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT
WHAT'S BEHIND THE NUMBERS IN
JUST A FEW MINUTES, AFTER THE
NEWS SUMMARY.
>> Woodruff: WALL STREET TOOK
THE ECONOMIC DATA AS A REASON TO
KEEP BUYING.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
CLOSED ABOVE 18,000 FOR THE
FIRST TIME, WITH A GAIN OF 64
POINTS.
THE S&P 500 ADDED 3, TO FINISH
AT 2,082.
THE NASDAQ FELL 16 POINTS, DUE
TO A DROP IN THE BIOTECHNOLOGY
SECTOR, TO CLOSE AT 4,765.
>> Ifill: PROTESTERS IN NEW YORK
PLAN TO GO AHEAD TONIGHT WITH
DEMONSTRATIONS AGAINST POLICE
USE OF FORCE.
THEY'VE REJECTED MAYOR BILL DE
BLASIO'S PLEA TO SUSPEND
PROTESTS OUT OF RESPECT FOR
THE FAMILIES OF TWO MURDERED
POLICE OFFICERS.
RAFAEL RAMOS AND WENJIAN LIU
WERE KILLED SATURDAY BY A GUNMAN
WHO LATER TOOK HIS OWN LIFE.
DE BLASIO AND HIS WIFE LAID
FLOWERS TODAY AT AN IMPROMPTU
MEMORIAL TO THE POLICEMEN.
THE MAYOR ALSO LED A MOMENT OF
SILENCE AT THE EXACT TIME OF THE
SHOOTING, AND HE APPEALED FOR
UNDERSTANDING.
>> WE HAVE TO PUT DIVISIONS OF
THE PAST BEHIND US.
THEY WERE LEFT TO ALL OF US IN
THIS GENERATION AND WE HAVE TO
OVERCOME THEM.
WE NEED TO PROTECT AND RESPECT
OUR POLICE, JUST AS OUR POLICE
PROTECT AND RESPECT OUR
COMMUNITIES.
WE CAN STRIKE THAT BALANCE, WE
MUST.
>> Ifill:  NEW YORK'S POLICE
COMMISSIONER SAID TODAY IT'S
"UNFORTUNATE" THAT PROTEST
ORGANIZERS ARE IGNORING THE
MAYOR'S CALL TO SUSPEND THEIR
ACTIVITIES.
>> Woodruff: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION IS TOUTING NEW
ENROLLMENT NUMBERS FOR THE
FEDERALLY RUN HEALTH INSURANCE
SITE.
OFFICIALS REPORTED NEARLY 6.4
MILLION AMERICANS HAVE SIGNED
UP.
OF THOSE, 1.9 MILLION ARE NEW
CUSTOMERS.
THE REST WERE AUTOMATICALLY RE-
ENROLLED.
>> Ifill: NEW YORK CONGRESSMAN
MICHAEL GRIMM PLEADED GUILTY
TODAY IN A FEDERAL TAX EVASION
CASE.
THE STATEN ISLAND REPUBLICAN WAS
ACCUSED OF HIDING MORE THAN $1
MILLION IN SALES AND WAGES AT A
HEALTH-FOOD RESTAURANT.
HE ENTERED A GUILTY PLEA TO A
SINGLE COUNT OF AIDING IN FILING
A FALSE TAX RETURN.
LAST MONTH, GRIMM WON RE-
ELECTION TO A THIRD TERM.
HE WOULD NOT SAY TODAY IF HE'LL
>> Woodruff: HOUSE REPUBLICANS
HAVE CHARGED FOR MORE THAN A
YEAR THAT THE INTERNAL REVENUE
SERVICE IMPROPERLY TARGETED
CONSERVATIVE GROUPS FOR
SCRUTINY.
BUT AN OFFICIAL REPORT TODAY,
FROM THE HOUSE OVERSIGHT
COMMITTEE, FOUND NO EVIDENCE
THAT THE WHITE HOUSE WAS
INVOLVED.
COMMITTEE DEMOCRATS SAY THE
REPORT CHERRY-PICKED FACTS TO
FIT A POLITICAL NARRATIVE.
>> Ifill: IN UKRAINE, PARLIAMENT
MOVED TODAY TO ABANDON THE
COUNTRY'S NON-ALIGNED STATUS,
POSSIBLY LEADING TO EVENTUAL
NATO MEMBERSHIP.
THE PROPOSAL PASSED WITH AN
OVERWHELMING VOTE OF 303 TO
NINE.
SUPPORTERS INSISTED THAT UKRAINE
PIVOT TOWARD THE WEST IN ITS
CONFRONTATION WITH RUSSIA.
>> ( translated ): WE CANNOT
AFFORD THE LUXURY TO HAVE NON-
ALIGNED STATUS.
WE HAVE NO TIME AND NO MONEY TO
WASTE AND NEED URGENTLY TO BUILD
THE UKRAINIAN ARMY IN ORDER TO
DEFEND OUR HOMELAND.
WE NEED TO BECOME PART OF THE
COLLECTIVE SYSTEM OF DEFENCE
WHICH IS NATO.
UKRAINE'S PLACE IS IN EUROPE,
UKRAINE'S PLACE IS IN NATO.
>> Ifill: RUSSIA CALLED THE MOVE
COUNTERPRODUCTIVE, AND SAID IT
WILL ONLY WORSEN RELATIONS
BETWEEN MOSCOW AND KIEV.
>> Woodruff: THERE'S WORD THAT
HUNDREDS OF LIBYANS HAVE DIED IN
THE FIGHTING THAT'S GRIPPED
THEIR COUNTRY SINCE LATE AUGUST.
THE UNITED NATIONS WARNED TODAY
OF A HUMANITARIAN CRISIS.
IT SAID AT LEAST 120,000 PEOPLE
HAVE FLED THEIR HOMES.
AT THE SAME TIME, A U.N. ENVOY
SAID RIVAL FACTIONS HAVE AGREED
TO HOLD NEW PEACE TALKS NEXT
>> Ifill: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL
ACCUSED ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS
TODAY OF FORCING HUNDREDS OF
IRAQI WOMEN AND GIRLS INTO
SEXUAL SLAVERY.
THE VICTIMS BELONGED TO THE
YAZIDI RELIGIOUS MINORITY.
THEY WERE CAPTURED IN AUGUST
WHEN THE MILITANTS OVERRAN THE
TOWN OF SINJAR NEAR THE SYRIAN
BORDER.
AMNESTY SAYS GIRLS AS YOUNG AS
TEN FACED TORTURE, RAPE AND
FORCED MARRIAGES.
>> Woodruff: AN ISLAMIC STATE
ALLY BLAMED FOR BEHEADING A
FRENCH HIKER IN ALGERIA,
HAS BEEN KILLED.
THE ALGERIAN MILITARY ANNOUNCED
TODAY THAT TROOPS AMBUSHED AND
KILLED ABDEL-MALEK GOURI LAST
NIGHT, AFTER A THREE-MONTH
MANHUNT.
HE HAD BEEN A TOP AL-QAEDA
COMMANDER BEFORE FORMING HIS OWN
GROUP.
>> Ifill: 2014 WAS ANOTHER
DEADLY YEAR FOR JOURNALISTS.
THE COMMITTEE TO PROTECT
JOURNALISTS SAYS AT LEAST 60
REPORTERS, PHOTOGRAPHERS AND
OTHERS WERE KILLED, NEARLY A
THIRD OF THEM IN SYRIA.
THE TOTAL IS DOWN FROM 70 LAST
YEAR, BUT ALL TOLD, THE PAST
THREE YEARS ARE THE DEADLIEST ON
RECD FOORR NEWS PROFESSIONALS.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR:
NEW FIGURES SHOW RECORD GROWTH
FOR THE US ECONOMY, BUT CAN THE
RECOVERY SUSTAIN ITSELF IN THE
NEW YEAR?
WHO'S REALLY BEHIND THE SONY
HACKING ATTACK?
NOT EVERYONE BLAMES NORTH KOREA.
ARCHAEOLOGISTS TRYING TO PROTECT
SOME OF THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE'S
OLDEST TREASURES FROM
DESTRUCTION.
THE F.D.A. RECOMMENDS LIFTING
ITS BAN ON GAY BLOOD DONORS.
HOPE FOR OPENING THE DOOR TO A
CUBAN IMPORT THAT MAY GIVE MAJOR
LEAGUE BASEBALL A LIFT.
AND, MEET THE WAR DOGS WHO JOIN
SOLDIERS IN SOME OF THE WORLD'S
MOST DANGEROUS PLACES.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TAKE A CLOSER
LOOK AT WHAT WAS BEHIND TODAY'S
STRONG NUMBERS ON THE ECONOMY
AND IMPRESSIVE RECENT GROWTH.
FOR THAT, WE TURN TO NARIMAN
BEHRAVESH, HE IS THE CHIEF
ECONOMIST AT I.H.S., AN ECONOMIC
FORECASTING AND RESEARCH FIRM.
NARIMAN BEHRAVESH, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
SO WHAT'S BEHIND THIS?
WHAT'S DRIVING THIS?
>> WELL, THE GOOD NEWS IS IT'S
FAIRLY BROAD-BASED.
THE REVISION THAT WE SAW TODAY
WAS MOSTLY DUE TO TWO FACTORS,
CONSUMER SPENDING WHICH IS
REVISED UP IN LARGE PART BECAUSE
OF REESTIMATES OF HIGHER
SPENDING ON HEALTHCARE.
BUT THAT WASN'T THE ONLY THING.
CAPITAL SPENDING WAS ALSO
REVISED UP QUITE CONSIDERABLY.
SO IT'S A FAIRLY BROAD-BASED
UPWARD REVISION IN GDP.
THE GOODS IN, AS YOU SAID AT THE
OUTSET OF THE PROGRAM, IS
THERE'S A LOT OF MOMENTUM IN THE
U.S. ECONOMY AND THAT WILL KEEP
US GOING FOR A WHILE.
>> Woodruff: SEEMS LIKE JUST
YESTERDAY WE WERE BEING TOLD
THAT THE ECONOMY WAS NOT PICKING
UP.
SO DOES THIS REPRESENT A SUDDEN
TURNAROUND OR WERE THE
FUNDAMENTALS THERE ALL ALONG?
>> NO, THE FUNDAMENTALS WERE
DEFINITELY THERE ALL ALONG.
LET'S JUST LOOK AT THE CONSUMER
FOR THE MOMENT.
IF YOU LOOK AT THINGS LIKE
EMPLOYMENT GROWTH, THE STRONGEST
IN OVER TEN YEARS, CONSISTENTLY
THROUGHOUT 2014.
CONSUMER FINANCES IN GREAT
SHAPE.
CONSUMER DEBT LEVELS RELATIVE TO
TAKE HOLM PAY THE LOWEST SINCE
2002.
THE BIG DROP IN GASOLINE
PRICEs LIKE AN $80 BILLION TO
$100 BILLION TAX CUT TO
CONSUMERS, THAT'S MONEY RIGHT
INTO THEIR POCKETS.
SO ALOF THIS IS GOOD NEWS AND
FUNDAMENTAL CHANGES.
THESE ARE SUSTAINABLE CHANGES
THAT WILL KEEP CONSUMER SPENDING
GROWTH GOING FOR SOME TIME
SOIVMENT WE'VE ALSO BEEN
REPORTING REGULARLY FOR SOME
TIME PROBABLY ALL THIS YEAR THAT
EVEN THOUGH WE'RE STARTING TO
SEE SOME GOOD ECONOMIC
STATISTICS OUT THERE, MOST
PEOPLE AREN'T FEELING IT, AND
THAT'S, IN LARGE PART, DUE TO
THE FACT WAGES HAVE BEEN
STAGNANT.
WHAT DO YOU SEE ON THE PAY FRONT
FRONT?
>> YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
CERTAINLY THE EMPLOYMENT
RECOVERY HAS BEEN THERE, BUT THE
WAGE RECOVERY HAS NOT.
UNTIL RECENTLY, I SHOULD SAY.
THE MOST RECENT NUMBERS, THE
NOVEMBER NUMBERS, FOR EXAMPLE,
ON WAGES, DID SHOW AN UPWARD
MOVEMENT.
THE INCOME DATA THAT CAME OUT
TODAY SUGGESTED DOESN'T GROWTH
IN TERMS OF WAGES AND SALARIES.
SO WE MAY ACTUALLY BE SEEING THE
BEGINNINGS OF A RECOVERY ON THE
WAGE FRONT.
BUT AS YOU SAY, THE FACT THAT
THAT HASN'T, UNTIL JUST VERY
RECENTLY, RECOVERED, MAKES
PEOPLE FEEL LIKE WHAT RECOVERY?
THEY'RE NOT SEEING IT IN ANY
MEANINGFUL WAY IN TERMS OF THEIR
SALARIES AND WHAT THEY'RE TAKING
HOME.
>> Woodruff: IS THERE AN
EXPLANATION FOR WHY WAGES ARE
STARTING TO GO UP?
>> WELL, THERE'S BEEN A VARIETY
OF EXPLANATIONS AS TO WHAT HAS
BEEN GOING ON AND WHY THAT'S
CHANGING NOW.
CERTAINLY ONE OF THEM IS, UNTIL
VERY RECENTLY, THERE'S BEEN A
LOT OF SLACK, IF YOU WILL, IN
THE LABOR MARKET, AND THAT'S
BEGINNING TO DISAPPEAR, IN THE
SENSE THAT THE LABOR MARKET IS
BEGINNING TO TIGHTEN.
AND THAT INEVITABLY RESULTS IN
HIGH WAGE GROWTH AND WE'RE IN
THE EARLY STAGES OF THAT HERE IN
2014, AND I THINK WE'LL SEE MORE
WAGE GROWTH IN 2015.
WHICH IS GOOD FOR THE ECONOMY.
MEANS THE CONSUMERS WILL HAVE
MORE TO SPEND AND THE RECOVERY
WILL BE SUSTAINED FOR A WHILE
LONGER.
>> Woodruff: SO WHAT IS THE
OUTLOOK FOR 2015?
WHAT ARE YOU SEEING?
>> WELL, THE WAY TO SAY IT IS
THAT THE UNDERLYING GROWTH RATE
OF THE U.S. ECONOMY NOW IS
AROUND 3%.
YOU KNOW, WE'LL GET QUARTERS OF
5%, WE MAY GET QUARTERS A LITTLE
LESS THAN THAT, BUT THE AVERAGE
IS GOING TO COME OUT AROUND 3%,
WHICH IS VERY SOLID.
SO THAT'S THE KIND OF NUMBER
WE'RE SEEING FOR 2015.
AGAIN, QUARTER BY QUARTER, IT'S
GOING TO BUMP UP AND DOWN.
IT WILL DEPEND ON THE WEATHER
MAYBE, SOME SPECIAL FACTORS, BUT
SOLID 3% AVERAGE IN 2015.
>> Woodruff: AND YOU AND OTHER
FOLKS WHO WATCH THIS FEEL
CONFIDENT ABOUT THAT?
>> WELL, ANYTHING CAN HAPPEN,
OBVIOUSLY.
THERE'S THE UNKNOWN UNKNOWNS, IF
YOU WANT TO SAY IT THAT WAY, OR,
YOU KNOW, THE STUFF THAT COULD
HAPPEN THAT YOU CAN'T EVEN BEGIN
TO PREDICT.
BUT IF WE DON'T GET A BAD SHOCK,
IF YOU WILL, THEN CERTAINLY I
THINK IT'S EASILY GOING TO BE
THAT 3%.
AND ALL THE FOUNDATIONS OF
GROWTH ARE THERE, ESPECIALLY IN
TERMS OF CONSUMER SPENDING AND
CAPITAL SPENDING.
SO BARRING SOME HORRIBLE SHOCK,
YES, I THINK WE'RE PRETTY
CONFIDENT WE'LL SEE THAT 3%.
>> Woodruff: THE ONLY OTHER
QUESTION I HAVE NARIMAN
BEHRAVESH IS HOW LONG WILL THIS
LAST?
>> AT LEAST A COUPLE OF YEARS,
IN THE SENSE THAT INFLATION IS
NOT A PROBLEM, AND USUALLY THAT
LEADS TO SOME -- YOU KNOW,
AGGRESSIVE TIGHTENING BY THE
FEDERAL RESERVE WHICH WE DON'T
SEE FOR THE NEXT COUPLE OF
YEARS.
SO 3% PLUS OR MINUS GROWTH
THROUGH 2016 I THINK IS QUITE
ACHIEVABLE.
>> Woodruff: NARIMAN
BEHRAVESH, GREAT TO HAVE GOOD
NEWS FOR A CHANGE.
THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: SONY PICTURES
ENTERTAINMENT REVIVED PLANS
TODAY TO RELEASE ITS COMEDY
ABOUT A PLOT TO KILL NORTH
KOREA'S LEADER.
IT WAS THE LATEST TWIST IN A
SAGA THAT'S PLAYED OUT IN
HOLLYWOOD, PYONGYANG AND
WASHINGTON.
TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT MEANS "THE
INTERVIEW" WILL BEGIN SHOWING
CHRISTMAS DAY, THE ORIGINAL
RELEASE DATE, AT POTENTIALLY
HUNDREDS OF INDEPENDENT THEATERS
AROUND THE COUNTRY.
IN A STATEMENT, THE STUDIO'S
C.E.O. MICHAEL LYNTON SAID SONY
HAD ALWAYS INTENDED TO RELEASE
IT:
SONY YANKED THE FILM LAST WEEK,
AFTER MAJOR THEATER CHAINS
REFUSED TO SCREEN IT, IN THE
FACE OF THREATENED VIOLENCE BY A
HACKERS GROUP.
THE SAME GROUP HAD ALREADY
CARRIED OUT A MASSIVE HACKING OF
SONY'S COMPUTER SYSTEM.
ON FRIDAY, PRESIDENT OBAMA AND
THE F.B.I. FORMALLY BLAMED NORTH
KOREA.
>> WE WILL RESPOND
PROPORTIONALLY, AND WE'LL
RESPOND IN A PLACE AND TIME AND
MANNER THAT WE CHOOSE.
>> Ifill: BUT THE PRESIDENT
TODAY APPLAUDED SONY'S LATEST
MOVE.
YESTERDAY, NORTH KOREA WAS HIT
BY AN INTERNET SHUTDOWN THAT
CONTINUED SPORADICALLY TODAY.
BUT THE STATE DEPARTMENT REFUSED
TO CONFIRM OR DENY ANY U.S. ROLE
IN THE OUTAGE.
>> THE PRESIDENT HAS SPOKEN TO
WHAT OUR POTENTIAL RESPONSE IS,
SEPARATE AND APART FROM WHAT
WE'VE SEEN OVER THE LAST 24
HOURS MIGHT BE.
AND I LEAVE IT TO THE NORTH
KOREANS TO TALK ABOUT IF THEIR
INTERNET WAS UP, IF IT WASN'T
AND WHY.
>> Ifill: ALMOST ALL OF NORTH
KOREA'S WEB LINKS PASS THROUGH
CHINA, BUT BEIJING FLATLY DENIED
IT HAD ANY ROLE IN THE CYBER-
ATTACK.
WHEN PRESIDENT OBAMA LAID BLAME
FOR THE SONY HACK SQUARELY AT
NORTH KOREA'S DOOR, SOME CYBER
SECURITY EXPERTS WERE SKEPTICAL,
AND REMAIN SO.
THE DEBATE CONTINUES IN
JOURNALS, BLOGS AND HERE
TONIGHT, WITH TWO EXPERTS FROM
CYBER SECURITY COMPANIES WHO
HAVE TRACKED BREACHES AROUND THE
WORLD.
MARC ROGERS IS PRINCIPAL
SECURITY RESEARCHER AT
CLOUDFLARE, AND, JOINING US
AGAIN, DMITRI ALPEROVITCH, CO-
FOUNDER AND CHIEF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICER AT CROWDSTRIKE.
DMITRI ALPEROVITCH, YOU CAME ON
THE PROGRAM LAST WEEK AND MADE
THE CASE THAT THE PRESIDENT WAS
CORRECT AND THAT THE F.B.I. WAS
CORRECT AND THIS WAS DEFINITELY,
DEFINITELY NORTH KOREA.
WHY SO CERTAIN?
REMIND PEOPLE WHY ARE WE SO
CERTAIN OF THAT?
>> I CAN'T SPEAK FOR THE F.B.I.
OR U.S. GOVERNMENT WHO ARE VERY
CERTAIN BUT I CAN SPEAK FOR
CROWDSTRIKE WHO HAS DONE
INDEPENDENT ANALYSIS AND WE HAVE
TRACKED IT TO A GROUP ACTIVE
SINCE 2006, PRIMARILY
SOUTH KOREA, U.S. FORCES KOREA
ARE LOOKING FOR MILITARY
PLANNING, EXERCISES OBSERVE THE
PENINSULA, THINGS OF NATURAL
CONCERN AND IMPORTANCE TO
NORTH KOREA.
WE'VE SEEN THEM ENGAGE IN
DESTRUCTIVE ATTACKS LIKE THE
SONY ATTACKS IN COLLUDING USE OF
SAME INFRASTRUCTURE, SOME I.P.
ADDRESSES USED IN THE ATTACK ON
SONY WERE USED IN SOME OF THE
PAST ATTACKS AND PART OF THE
MALWARE, THE CODE USED IN SEWNY,
HAS BEEN SHARED ACROSS SOME OF
THE PREVIOUS ATTACKS, SO WE'VE
SEEN THEM ATTACK SOUTH KOREA IN
2009, 2011, 2013, SO WE HAVE A
TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF VISIBILITY
INTO THIS GROUP.
>> Ifill: SOUNDS PERSUASIVE,
MARC ROGERS.
WHAT'S YOUR PROBLEM WITH THAT?
>> THE BIGGEST PROBLEM IS A LOT
OF THIS INFORMATION IS BASED ON
EVIDENCE THAT ISN'T ACCESSIBLE
TO A LOT OF FOLKS.
SO IF YOU LOOK AT THE EVIDENCE
THAT THE F.B.I. PASSED OUT IN
ITS NOTICE, ON ITS OWN, IT'S
LARGELY SPECULATIVE AND IT'S NOT
BACKED UP BY ANY REALLY SOLID
EVIDENCE.
THERE ARE HINTS, HOWEVER, THAT
THERE MAY BE THINGS LIKE SIGNALS
INTELLIGENCE AND OTHER
INFORMATION THEY CAN'T DISCLOSE
FOR NATIONAL SECURITY PURPOSES.
UNFORTUNATELY, WITHOUT HAVING
THAT INFORMATION THERE'S NO WAY
FOR OTHER SECURITY EXPERTS TO
REALLY VALIDATE THAT.
MY COLLEAGUE DMITRI HAS ACCESS
TO CHANNELS OTHER FOLKS DON'T
HAVE, SO TO ME IT'S INTERESTING
TO HEAR THE STUFF HE'S TALKING
ABOUT.
BUT UNTIL I SEE TANGIBLE STUFF
MYSELF, SEEMS MORE THAN JUST
CORRELATIONS BETWEEN CERTAIN
PIECES OF MALWARE, I'M GOING TO
REMAIN SKEPTICAL.
>> Ifill: LET'S BREAK IT DOWN
A LITTLE BIT, DMITRI
ALPEROVITCH.
LET'S TALK JUST ABOUT THE I.P.
ADDRESS ISSUE WHICH THE AMERICAN
GOVERNMENT IS MAKING THE CASE
WE'RE FAMILIAR WITH THESE I.P.
ADDRESSES, THAT THEY HAVE BEEN
USED IN OTRHE HACKS.
IS THAT PART OF THE EVIDENCE
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT?
>> WELL, WHAT THEY'RE ACTUALLY
SAYING IS SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
THERE ARE CERTAIN I.P. ADDRESSES
USED IN THE ATTACK DIRECTLY ON
SONY.
WHAT THE F.B.I. SAID IS THEY
HAVE OBSERVED PRESUMABLY THROUGH
SIGNALS INTELLIGENCE THAT THOSE
MACHINES WERE ACTUALLY
CONTACTING NORTH KOREAN
STRUCTURE.
THEY WERE GOING THROUGH PROXIES
BUT THEY WERE ABLE TO OBSERVE
THE CONNECTIONS BETWEEN THE
PROXIES AND THE NORTH KOREAN
STRUCTURE USED IN PAST ATTACKS.
>> Ifill: PROXIES IS DIFFERENT
THAN SAYING NORTH KOREA ITSELF
IS INVOLVED.
IT'S SAYING SOMEBODY ELSE WAS
DOING IT ON THEIR BEHALF?
>> I MEAN THE MACHINES, NOT
NECESSARILY THE PEOPLE.
YOU DON'T ATTACK DIRECTLY
THROUGH A COUNTRY.
YOU GO THROUGH SERVERS IN
GERMANY OR THAILAND.
>> Ifill: DOES THAT SOUND
REASONABLE TO YOU THAT MAYBE
IT'S NOT THE NORTH KOREAN
GOVERNMENT AS A STATE ACTOR BUT
THE NORTH KOREAN GOVERNMENT
GOING THROUGH PROXIES?
>> IT'S CERTAINLY PLAUSIBLE.
I'VE SAID ALL I LONG YOU CAN'T
RULE OUT NORTH KOREA AS BEING
BEHIND THIS, BUT WE NEED
EVIDENCE THAT TIES INTO IT.
THE PROXIES DMITRI MENTIONED ARE
FAIRLY WELL KNOWN.
IF YOU LOOK UP I.P. ADDRESSES
LOOKING AT REPRESENTATION ACE
LONG LINE, YOU WILL SEE THEY
INVOLVE MALWARE CAMPAIGNS AND
USED BY OTHER CYBERCRIMINALS, SO
NO SURPRISE TO SEE SOMEONE ELSE
IS USING THOSE, AND THE
NORTH KOREANS.
TO SAY BAD GUYS ARE IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD DOESN'T TELL ME WHO
THEY ARE.
>> Ifill: IS THIS SOMETHING
YOU WOULD KNOW?
AS YOU SUGGESTED UKES THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT, THE F.B.I.
MAYBE HAS INFORMATION THAT BACKS
THIS UP THAT YOU WOULDN'T HAVE?
>> THAT'S ENTIRELY POSSIBLE BUT
IT'S DIFFICULT TO BE SWAYED BY
AN ARGUMENT WHERE SOMEBODY SAYS
WE HAVE ABSOLUTE PROOF BECAUSE
WE HAVE SIGNALS INTELLIGENCE
THAT TELLS US THIS IS IT BUT WE
DON'T COUNTY TELL YOUN'T ATE.
WHEN IT COMES TO LAYING BLAME AT
A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT, WE HAVE TO
BE PRETTY CAREFUL.
I'M NO FAN TO HAVE THE
NORTH KOREAN REGIME AND, TO BE
HONEST, IF THEY ARE RESPONSIBLE,
I HOPE THIS GETS HUNG AROUND
THEIR NECK, BUT WE HAVE TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE HAVE ABSOLUTE SOLID
EVIDENCE, AND I BELIEVE THE
EVIDENCE SHOULD BE DEALT WITH IN
A TRANSPARENT WAY AS POSSIBLE.
OBVIOUSLY, WE DON'T WANT THE
N.S.A. TO DESTROY LEAKS OR
SOURCES THEY USE, BUT, AT THE
SAME TIME, WE WOULD GIVE A
CERTAIN AMOUNT OF EVIDENCE
BEFORE CONVICTING A PERSON OF A
CRIME.
WHY DOESN'T A COUNTRY DESERVE
THE SAME LEVEL OF EVIDENCE?
>> ONE OF THE PIECE OF EVIDENCE
WE CAN'T IGNORE IS THE
STATEMENTS FROM NORTH KOREA
THEMSELVES.
THEY CAME OUT IN THE SUMMER LONG
BEFORE THE MOVIE WAS RELEASED
SAYING THE RELEASE OF THIS MOVIE
WOULD BE AN ACT OF WAR.
I THINK WE SHOULD TAKE THEM AT
THEIR WORD.
IN THE FAST WHEN THE INFLAMMATO,
THEY'VE SUNK SOUTH KOREAN SHIPS,
SUN,ET CETERA.
ON PRERELEASED MOVIES LIKE ANNIE
AND FURIY, THE ONE RELEASE THEY
DID NOT RELEASE WAS THE
INTERVIEW.
>> Ifill: AN INTERESTING POINT
MARC ROGERS MADE IS IF YOU'RE
GOING TO LAY THAT KIND OF
ALLEGATION HAT THE DOOR OF AN
ENEMY OR HOSTILE GOVERNMENT,
SHOULDN'T THERE BE MORE REVEALED
ABOUT WHY WE KNOW THAT?
>> I THINK THEY REVEALED SOME
THINGS.
CERTAINLY SOME SECURITY
COMPANIES LIKE OURS REVEALED
OTHER INFORMATION.
MY GUESS IS THEY'RE BIDING THEIR
TIME, THAT THERE WILL COME A
POINT WHERE THEY WILL REVEAL
MORE.
THOUGH DON'T FEEL LIKE THEY NEED
TO AT THE MOMENT.
>> Ifill: MARC ROGERS, I WANT
TO ASK YOU ABOUT ANOTHER POINT
THAT DMITRI ALPEROVITCH JUST
MADE WHICH IS SOME OF THE MOVIES
RELEASED ONLINE AND SOME WEREN'T
AND THE THREATS WERE MADE, IS IT
POSSIBLE THAT THE KNOWLEDGE THAT
WAS ON DISPLAY HERE WAS ACTUALLY
SOMETHING THAT CAME INTERNALLY
FROM SOMEONE WITHIN SONY?
>> AGAIN, YOU CAN'T RULE THAT
OUT EITHER.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE WAY THE
MALWARE WAS DISTRIBUTED
THROUGHOUT THE NETWORK, HOW MANY
MACHINES IT TOOK DOWN, HOW THEY
WERE ABLE TO SET UP THE EDGE OF
SONY'S NETWORK TO DISTRIBUTE
TONE ZONEY'S DATA LATER ON, THAT
REQUIRED A CERTAIN LEVEL OF
ACCESS.
THE ACCESS COULD HAVE COME FROM
ATTACKERS WHO HAD BEEN SITTING
IN THAT NETWORK FOR MANY, MANY
MONTHS, OR THAT ACCESS COULD
HAVE AS EASILY COME FROM
SOMEBODY INSIDE IT.
AND WHEN DMITRI SAYS THAT THE
ONE FILM THAT DIDN'T GET
RELEASED WAS THIS ONE, WE DON'T
KNOW THAT.
WE DON'T KNOW HOW MANY FILMS
SONY IS WORKING ON SO WE DON'T
KNOW HOW MANY FILMS DIDN'T GET
RELEASED.
ALSO, WITH RESPECT TO THE
MESSAGES NORTH KOREA MAKES,
HAVING SPENT YEARS LIVING IN
SOUTH KOREA MYSELF, NORTH KOREA
MAKES THESE KINDS OF THREATS ALL
THE TIME.
THEY'RE TELLING US CONSTANTLY
THEY'RE GOING TO OBLITERATE US.
IF YOU DO THIS, WE'LL OBLITERATE
YOU.
THE NUMBER OF THEIR THREATS THAT
HAVE ACTUALLY COME TRUE IS THE
LOWER RATHER THAN HIGHER
PERCENTAGE.
THAT'S NOT TO DISMISS SOME OF
THE ATROCITIES THEY HAVE
COMMITTED WHICH ARE ABSOLUTELY
TERRIBLE.
>> Ifill: SINCE WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT THREATS, WE SEE THE FILM
WILL BE IN LIMITED RELEASE
PROBABLY LATER THIS WEEK.
IF I WERE RUNNING AN INDEPENDENT
THEATER IN AUSTIN, TEXAS, THAT'S
GOING TO BEGIN SHOWING THIS FILM
AT MIDNIGHT ON CHRISTMAS DAY,
SHOULD I BE AFRAID?
ARE THEY TAKING A RISK AT THIS
POINT?
>> GWEN, YOU CAN BE ABSOLUTELY
CERTAIN THE COMPANIES INVOLVED
IN DISTRIBUTION OF THE MOVIE ARE
TAKING THIS MOVIE SERIOUSLY AND
WORKING WITH COMPANIES LIKE
CROWDSTRIKE TO MAKE SURE THEY'RE
PREPARED.
>> Ifill: WHAT DO YOU THINK
ABOUT THAT, MARC ROGERS?
>> I THINK IT'S HIGHLY UNLIKELY
THE CINEMA IN TEXAS WILL FACE
MUCH THREAT FROM A REGIME OR
GROUP OF HACKERS.
YES, THERE IS SOME STUFF THESE
GUYS COULD DO BUT I THINK IT'S
UNLIKELY.
NOT SOMETHING THAT'S BEEN SEEN
BEFORE.
WHEN THERE IS THREATS SAYING
THEY WILL CREATE 9/11 WITHIN A
CINEMA, MY SKEPTICISM GOES ALL
THE WAY THROUGH THE ROOF.
>> I ACTUALLY AGREE WITH MARC ON
THE PHYSICAL THREAT BUT ON THE
CYBER PERSPECTIVE, I THINK IT'S
REAL.
>> Ifill: THANK YOU BOTH VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: NOW, A DESERT
THAT'S BEING OVERRUN BY RUSHING
WATER.
JEFFREY BROWN LOOKS AT THE
EFFORT TO PRESERVE ANCIENT
ARCHEOLOGICAL SITES IN NORTHERN
PERU AGAINST THE DESTRUCTIVE
POWER OF EL NINO.
IT'S PART OF HIS ONGOING SERIES,
"CULTURE AT RISK."
>> Brown: IT LOOKS LIKE A
GIANT SAND CASTLE.
IT'S WALLS AND TOWERS SLOWLY
BEING RECLAIMED BY THE EARTH.
THIS IS THE ANCIENT CITY, NINE
SQUARE MILES WIDE, ONCE THE
LARGEST IN THE AMERICAS AND THE
LARGEST ADOBE CITY IN THE WORLD.
IT SERVED AS THE CENTER OF
POLITICAL, LEGISLATIVE AND
RELIGIOUS LIFE FOR THE CHIMU
PEOPLE WHO RULED THIS REGION
FROM THE NINTH CENTURY TILL THE
LATE 1400s WHEN THEY WERE
CONQUERED BY THE INCAS.
HERE YOU GET A HINT OF THE
SPLENDOR BEFORE AND AFTER
RESTORATION OF PALACE CEREMONIAL
HALLS, ALL OF IT IN ONE OF THE
DRYEST REGIONS ON THE PLANET.
>> THIS IS MUCH MORE DESERT THAN
SOUTH AMERICA.
NO RAIN FOR 15 YEARS, THEN ONE
DAY, BOOM.
>> BOOMING, RUSHING, FLOODING.
THESE IMAGES FROM FEBRUARY 1998
SHOW THE IMPACT OF THE WEATHER
PHENOMENON KNOWN AS EL NIO AT
ITS WORST, DRENCHING THE REGION,
DESTROYING HOMES, BRIDGES AND
ENDANGERING THE LIVES OF THOSE
WHO LIVE NEARBY, AS WELLS THE
THOUSANDS OF ARCHEOLOGICAL SITES
THAT DOT THE LAND HERE, SLICING
THROUGH CENTURIES-OLD ADOBE
WALLS AND SMEARING AWAY
PAINTINGS MORE THAN 1,000 YEARS
OLD.
PERU'S DEPUTY CULTURAL MINISTER
CASTILLO WAS A YOUNG
ARCHAEOLOGIST AND DEVASTATED
WHEN EL NIO HIT HIS COUNTRY.
>> WHEN I WAS IN MY EARLY 20s,
THE EL NIO HAPPENED AND TOOK
EVERYBODY BY SURPRISE.
WE WERE NOT PREPARED.
IN THE PAST, THEY WOULD DO HUMAN
SACRIFICES TO PREVENT THE RAIN
FROM FALLING.
WE'RE NOT DOING THAT ANYMORE.
>> Brown: THAT'S NOT EVEN
ALLOWED AT THE CULTURE MINISTRY.
>> NO.
WE CAN INVEST MONEY AND UNLEASH
THE ARCHEOLOGY GISTS TO DO THEIR
WORK.
>> Brown: IT CAN LOOK AS
SIMPLE AND DAUNTING AS THIS, A
LOCAL WORKER WITH A SYRINGE
SWIRTING WATER INTO A CRACK
REINFORCING AN ADOBE WALL.
IMAGINE HOW MANY INJECTIONS ARE
REQUIRED FOR THE AREA.
BUT THE WORK IS GOING ON AFTER
CLIMATOLOGISTS PREDICTED A
STRONG EL NIO FOR THIS WINTER
AND SPRING, THE GOVERNMENT FOR
THE FIRST TIME PUT IN A PLAN AT
THE COST OF $8 MILLION, HIRING
AROUND 1,000 WORKERS.
ONE WHEELBARROW AT A TIME, HEAVY
EQUIPMENT ISN'T ALLOWED HERE,
THEY'RE TRANSPORTING SAND TO
SHORE UP WALLS, TO PREVENT WATER
FROM ACCUMULATING AND BREAKING
THROUGH.
THEY'RE ALSO BUILDING ROOFS FOR
MURALS AND VULNERABLE AREAS AND
LAYING EXPENSIVE DRAINAGE
SYSTEMS.
OUTSIDE THE SITE ITSELF, RIVER
BANKS ARE BEING FORT TIED AND
PATHS CLEARED FOR WATER TO FLOW.
>> MY MOTHER TOLD ME A STORY
ABOUT WHEN WE LIVED IN NORTHERN
PERU WHEN THE WATER WAS UP TO
OUR KNEES IN OUR HOUSE.
>> Brown: PERUVIAN BORN
FRANCISCO CHAVEZ WOULD GROW UP
TO STUDY EL NINEIO PATTERNS AS
AN OCEANOGRAPHER AT THE RESEARCH
INSTITUTE IN CALIFORNIA.
WE MET IN LEA LIMA.
>> THERE IS A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
WHAT HAPPENS IN THE WESTERN
PACIFIC AND IN PERU.
WE'RE STILL AT THE POINT WHERE
IT'S STILL VERY DIFFICULT FOR US
TO PREDICT THE TIMING AND
MAGNITUDE OF THE EVENTS.
>> Brown: EL NIOS OCCUR
OBSERVE AVERAGE EVERY FIVE
YEARS, WHEN THE TYPICALLY COOL
SURFACE TEMPERATURES OF THE
EQUATORIAL PACIFIC OCEAN WARM,
ALTERING WEATHER PATTERNS IN
PERU AND OTHER PARTS OF THE
WORLD INCLUDING IN THE U.S.
THEY'VE HAPPENED FOR CENTURIES.
THE CHIMU AND CHANG CHANG
EXPERIENCED THEM.
THE SPANISH NAME CAME FROM
PERUVIAN FISHERMAN WHO IN THE
NORTHERN PORTS USE TRADITIONAL
BOATS LIKE THIS.
THE WATERS COME AROUND
CHRISTMAS, HINS IS T ASSOCIATION
WITH EL NIO, THE BABY JESUS.
A DEFINITIVE LINK WITH CLIMATE
CHANGE REMAINS ELUSIVE, BUT
FRANCISCO CHAVEZ SAY SCIENTISTS
ARE NOW SEEING A NEW PHENOMENON.
>> WHAT WE THINK WE CAN SAY IS
THAT THE CHANGES THAT WE'RE
SEEING RECENTLY ARE OF LARGER
AMPLE NUDE BOT -- AMPLITUDE IN H
DIRECTIONS.
IF THAT PATTERN CONTINUES, THEN
OVER THE NEXT 15 TO 20 YEARS,
WE'LL SEE A NUMBER OF LARGE EL
NIOS.
>> Brown: NOT FAR, AGAINST A
DUSTY MOUNTAIN BACKDROP, ANOTHER
DRAMATIC SITE, THE TEMPLE OF THE
MOON.
NESTLED AT THE BASE
BLANCO, THE WHITE MOUNTAIN, IT'S
THE HOME OF THE PEOPLE WHO
PRECEDED THE CHIMU.
WALL BY WALL OF PAINTED MURALS
OF MYTHIC GODS, HUMANS AND
ANIMALS INCLUDING FROM THE
NEARBY OCEAN.
RICARDO MORALES IS CO-DIRECTOR
OF THE SITE AND ONE OF PERU'S
LEADING CONSERVATIV CONSERVATOR.
>> THEY'RE NOT JUST PICTURES AND
DECORATIONS, THEY'RE FORMS OF
COMMUNICATION THAT TELL A STORY
THROUGH AN IMAGE.
>> HERE, TOO, THE FACES OF GODS
WASHED AWAY IS EVIDENCE OF
DAMAGE FROM PREVIOUS EL NIOS.
AND HERE, TOO, THE PRESERVATION
WORK GOES ON, AS WORKERS USE A
LOCAL SPECIES OF CANE TO BUILD
ROOFS TO DIVERT THE COMING
RAINS.
AND UNCOVER NEW MURALS AND TREAT
THEM WITH PROTECTIVE CHEMICALS.
MORALES TOLD US MODERN
CONSERVATORS CAN LEARN FROM THE
ANCIENTS WHO THEMSELVES FACED EL
NIO DEVASTATION, HERE IT'S NEW
TECHNOLOGY MIXED WITH THE OLD.
>> EL NIO TEACHES US THERE ARE
TYPES OF ADOBE, THE BROWN TYPE
MOST RESISTANT TO RAINS.
SO WE HAVE A MORE RAIN-RESISTANT
ADOBE USED TO PROTECT THE SITES
AND THE PEOPLE ARE USING IN
THEIR HOMES.
>> IfillHOMES.
>> Brown: YOU'RE LEARNING FROM
THEM.
>> YES.
ALL THESE STRUCTURES ARE
KNOWLEDGE.
WE TAKE ADVANTAGE OF ANCIENT
KNOWLEDGE AND IMPROVE TECHNIQUES
USING MODERN CONSTRUCTION.
>> Brown: ON THE CLORL SQUARE
OF THE NEARBY IS I OF TRUJILLO,
ANOTHER CONSTRUCTION WAS
UNDERWAY AS CHRISTMAS
DECORATIONS WERE PUT UP.
CHRISTMAS MAY BE GETTING A
BREAK.
THE LATEST FORECAST DOWNGRADING
THE SEVERITY OF THE EMINENT EL
NIO.
EVERYONE TOLD US THERE'S NO WAY
TO KNOW FOR SURE.
ALL THEY CAN DO IS PREPARE AND
PERHAPS PRAY TO THE GODS OF OLD.
FOR NORTHERN PERU, JEFFREY BROWN
FOR THE PRB THE PBS "NewsHour".
>> Ifill: SINCE THE EARLY DAYS
OF THE AIDS CRISIS, MUCH HAS
CHANGED, BUT ONE BAN HAS
ENDURED.
GAY AND BISEXUAL MEN HAVE NOT
BEEN ALLOWED TO GIVE BLOOD, OUT
OF FEAR THEY COULD TRANSMIT
H.I.V.
TODAY, THE F.D.A. ANNOUNCED
PLANS TO END THE LIFETIME BAN,
ARGUING THAT IT IS OUTDATED.
INSTEAD, THE PROHIBITION WOULD
BE LIMITED TO MEN WHO VE HHAAD
SEX WITH MEN DURING THE PREVIOUS
12 MONTHS.
THE AMERICAN RED CROSS SAID
TODAY IT BACKS THE CHANGE TO
WHAT IT CALLED AN UNWARRANTED
POLICY, AND...
GLENN COHEN OF THE HARVARD LAW
SCHOOL SPECIALIZES IN MEDICAL
ETHICS AND ALSO SUPPORTS THE
CHANGE.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
WHY, PROFESSOR COHEN, LIFT THE
BAN NOW?
>> THE BAN WE HAD IN PLACE WAS
OUTDATED.
IT DATES BACK TO 1983, THE EARLY
DAYS OF THE HIV CRISIS, AND A
FEW THINGS HAVE CHANGED SINCE
THEN.
FIRST OF ALL, OUR ABILITY TO
TEEST QUICKLY AND
ACCURATELY FOR HIV, THAT'S
DRAMATICALLY IMPROVED.
HIV HAS GONE FROM A FATAL
DISEASE TO A MUCH MORE CHRONIC
DISEASE, AT LEAST IN AMERICA.
AND WE ALSO HAVE THE EXPERIENCE
OF OTHER COUNTRIES, WE ARE AN
INTERNATIONAL OUTLIER ON THE
LIFETIME BAN.
OTHER COUNTRIES HAVE USED
SHORTER DEFERRAL PERIODS AND WE
HAVE DATA FROM THOSE COUNTRIES
SUGGESTING NO ADVERSE AFFECTS
FOR MOVING TO A SHORTER PERIOD.
>> Ifill: WHY IS IT OTHER
COUNTRIES MOVE MORE QUICKLY AND
WHAT DOES THAT DATA SHOW?
>> SO THE DATA SHOWS, AGAIN,
IT'S A MIX, CANADA IS ABOUT FIVE
YEARS, THE U.K. IS ABOUT
12-MONTH BAN, SOUTH AFRICA ABOUT
SIX MONTHS, AND THE COUNTRY THAT
WE THINK IS THE MOST PROGRESSIVE
ON THIS AND ME AND MY CO-AUTHORS
AND THE JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN
MEDICAL ASSOCIATION THINK THIS
IS THE RIGHT WAY TO GO ABOUT IT
IS ITALY.
ITALY SAID LET'S NOT DO BLANKET
POLICIES, LET'S DO
INDIVIDUALIZED RISK ASSESSMENTS
AND ITALY MADE THE MOVE IN 2001,
AND DATA PUBLISHED IN 2013 SHOW
NO APPRECIABLE RISK OF INFECTION
RATE IN THE ITALIAN BLOOD
SUPPLY.
THIS IS A LONG-TIME COMING.
>> Ifill: YET, NOT WIPING OUT
OR LIFTING THE BAN ENTIRELY,
WE'RE GOING TO THIS ONE-YEAR
KIND OF PROHIBITION MORATORIUM.
WHY?
WHY ONLY GO TO ONE YEAR?
WHY NOT WIPE IT OUT IF IT'S SO
SAFE ENTIRELY?
>> SO, AGAIN, I THINK FDA IS A
CONSERVATIVE INSTITUTION.
IT WANTS TO TRACK WHAT ITS PURE
COUNTRIES ARE DOING.
MY OWN POSITION IS IT WOULD BE
BETTER TO MOVE TO AN
INDIVIDUALIZED ASSESSMENT WHERE
WE DON'T SAY BEING GAY OR HAVING
SEX WITH A MAN IS AN AUTOMATIC
DISQUALIFIER BUT LOOK AT THE
INDIVIDUAL.
THEY'RE GOING TO LOOK AT THE
DATA, BUT IT'S IMPORTANT TO
REALIZE MOST SEXUALLY ACTIVE GAY
MEN WILL HAVE HAD SEX WITH
SOMEONE IN THE PAST YEAR.
WHAT THIS DOES IS BRING IN MEN
WHO HAVE HAD SEX WITH MEN ONCE
SINCE 1977.
THE CURRENT PROHIBITION THAT FDA
IS CHANGING SAYS IF YOU'VE EVER
HAD SEX WITH A MAN EVEN ONCE,
YOU'RE DISQUALIFIED AND THAT'S
ABOUT 8.5% OF THE AMERICAN MALE
POPULATION DISQUALIFIED
ORIGINALLY.
>> Ifill: THAT DOESN'T SOUND
LIKE THAT ADDS A LOT TO THE
NUMBER OF POTENTIAL BLOOD
DONORS.
NOT ONLY ARE YOU OPENING THE
POTENTIAL POOL TO MORE PEOPLE,
BUT IT'S ALSO A VERY NARROW
SUBSET OF THOSE PEOPLE.
>> AN ESTIMATE FROM THE WILLIAMS
INSTITUTE WHICH LOOKED AT THE
DEMOGRAPHY OF GAY MEN IN AMERICA
AND THE RATE OF HAVING SEX AND
WHETHER THEY'RE WILLING TO
DONATE CALCULATES THIS MOVE WILL
MOVE ABOUT 317,000 PINTS OF
BLOOD A YEAR.
GETTING RID OF THE BAN WILL GET
MORE BLOOD.
THIS IS TOO CONSERVATIVE, BUT WE
ARE HOPEFUL THE FDA WILL MOVE A
BIT.
IT TOOK 30 YEARS FOR THE FDA TO
MOVE AT ALL.
WE HOPE THEY WILL VIEW THIS AS
AN EXPERIMENT, VIEW DATA AND
CONSIDER A MORE RELAXED
STANDARD.
>> Ifill: WHAT IF THE TIMING
OF THIS ROLLOUT?
>> THE FDA PLANNED ON TODAY'S
PRESS RELEASE, WE'LL HAVE
COMMENT.
MY EXPECTATION IS IN THE NEXT
YEAR, WE'LL SEE THE POLICY
CHANGED EFFECTIVELY AND ALL AT
ONCE AND AT THAT POINT THE RED
CROSS SAID THEY'LL CHANGE THEIR
POLICIES.
>> Ifill: SHOULD WE WORRY OUR
BLOOD SUPPLY WILL BE COMPROMISED
DUE TO THE RELAXED RULE?
>> MY EXPERIENCE IS NO.
THE BEST DATA AND EXPERIENCE IS
TO LOOK AT OUR NEIGHBORS AND
SEEING WHAT'S HAPPENING WITH
THEM.
NONE OF THAT DATA GIVES US
REASON TO WORRY.
FDA IS AN EXTREMELY CONSERVATIVE
INSTITUTION WHEN IT COMES TO
SAFETY.
EVERY PINT OF BLOOD DONATED IS
ALREADY TESTED FOR HIV.
ALL WE'RE DOING NOW IS SAYING
YOU HAD A CLASSIFICATION THAT
WAS OVERBROAD, IT EXCLUDED MANY
PEOPLE, AND NOW YOU RELAX THAT.
THE GOOD NEWS IS THIS SHOULD
HOPEFULLY ADD TO THE BLOOD
SUPPLY AS WELL AS LIBERATE
THINGS LIKE BONE MARROW AND THE
LIKE WHICH ALSO TRACKED THE
BLOOD RULES.
>> Ifill: PROFESSOR GLENN
COHEN OF HARVARD LAW SCHOOL,
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: SINCE PRESIDENT
OBAMA ANNOUNCED THE U.S. WOULD
NORMALIZE RELATIONS WITH CUBA,
MUCH OF THE DISCUSSION HAS
FOCUSED ON HUMAN RIGHTS,
FREEDOM, DEMOCRACY AND COMMERCE.
BUT OPENING THE DOORS TO NORMAL
RELATIONS WITH CUBA COULD ALSO
LEAD TO SOME PROFOUND CULTURAL
CHANGES, INCLUDING IN THE WORLD
OF SPORTS AND PARTICULARLY
BASEBALL, A GAME THAT SO MANY
CUBANS LOVE.
HARI SREENIVASAN SAT DOWN WITH A
BASEBALL WATCHER TO DISCUSS THE
POSSIBILITIES IN OUR NEW YORK
STUDIOS EARLIER THIS WEEK.
PEOPLE TALK ABOUT TRADITIONAL
IMAGES OF CUBA, ONE MAJOR
CULTURAL TOUCHSTONE HAS BEEN
SPORTS, SPECIFICALLY THE
COUNTRY'S HISTORICAL RESERVOIR
OF BASEBALL TALENT.
BASEBALL HAS HONG BEEN THE MOST
POPULAR SPORT ON THE ISLAND AND
CUBAN PLAYERS HAVE FOUND THEIR
WAY INTO AMERICAN BASEBALL FOR
MORE THAN 100 YEARS, SOME MAKING
A LEGENDARY NAME FOR THEMSELVES
LIKE LOUIE, A THREE-TIME
ALL-STAR PITCHER.
LAST YEAR CUBAN ON THE ROSTERS
IN MAJOR BASEBALL TEAMS IN THE
UNITED STATES AND MORE THAN 200
PLAYERS DEFECTING OVER TIME TO
PLAY BASEBALL IN THE U.S.
CUBAN PLAYERS HAVE STOOD OUT IN
RECENT SEASONS LIKE THE SLUGGER
FOR THE LOS ANGELES DODGERS WHO
ILLEGALLY CROSSED THE BORDER
FROM MEXICO TO TEXAS IN 2012 AND
AN ALL-STAR CLOSER FOR THE
CINCINNATI REDS.
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL HAS LONG
HAD AN EYE ON TAPPING INTO MORE
CUBAN TALENT NOW THAT THE U.S.
AND CUBA ARE MOVING TOWARD A
DIFFERENT RELATIONSHIP THERE ARE
LOTS OF QUESTIONS ABOUT HOW IT
MIGHT IMPACT THE SPORT.
THE NATIONAL SPORTS
CORRESPONDENT FOR THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS JOINS ME NOW.
SO IF THE RELATIONS ARE
NORMALIZED, I'M ASSUMING ONE OF
THE THINGS THAT WOULD CHANGE THE
DECREASE IN THE NUMBER OF
STORIES OF HOW PLAYERS DEFECT
AND GET THEMSELVES ACROSS THE
BORDER, I MEAN, SOME OF THESE
STORIES ARE PRETTY HARROWING.
>> WELL, YEAH, AND ALMOST
ANYTHING WOULD BE BETTER THAN
THE STATUS QUO, QUITE FRANKLY.
I MEAN, WITHOUT MAKING IT TOO
SIMPLE, THE BEST THING YOU COULD
BE IF YOU'RE A CUBAN DEFECTOR
WOULD BE OVER THE AGE OF 23 WITH
FIVE YEARS OF PROFESSIONAL
EXPERIENCE BECAUSE THEN YOU
WOULDN'T WITH SUBJECT TO THE
INTERNATIONAL DRAFT BY MAJOR
LEAGUE BASEBALL AND SO YOU'RE
INTENTIONALLY A FREE, FREE AGENT
AND YOU'RE ABLE TO NEGOTIATE
YOUR OWN DEAL.
YOU NEED RESIDENCE OUTSIDE THE
U.S.
THERE ARE TAX PROBLEMS, THERE
ARE ALL SORTS OF THINGS.
YET WE HAVE ONE SIDE TRY TO
MINIMIZE WHAT THEY PAY FOR THE
TALENT AND THE OTHER SIDE,
AGENTS AND BALL PLAYERS TRY TO
MAXIMIZE THAT SO THEY'LL
PROBABLY MEET IN THE MIDDLE.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME OF THE
FREE FREE AGENTS HAVE MADE A
VERY PRETTY PENNY.
>> THERE'S ABOUT THREE OR FOUR
THAT JUST SIGNED CONTRACTS
PRE-DIMENSIONED.
THEY'RE GETTING SIX-YEAR,
SEVEN-YEAR DEALS FOR AROUND
$70 MILLION.
THEY'RE ALL ROUGHLY BETWEEN 24
AND 27 AND VERY VALUABLE
ASSUMING THAT THE OTHER AGENTS
AS IN THE PAST, USUALLY WITH
MORE OF THE CARIBBEAN BALL
PLAYERS BUT AGE IS ALWAYS AN
ISSUE.
>> Sreenivasan: TELL ME WHY
THESE PLAYERS ARE SO SOUGHT
AFTER.
WE PLAYERS FROM VENEZUELA OR THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.
>> BECAUSE MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
HAS SET UP CAD MISIN BOTH OF
THOSE COUNTRIES AND HAVE BEGIN
TO OPEN UP THE PIPELINE OF
TALENTED BALL PLAYERS.
CUBA HAS A STATE'S SPONSORED
SYSTEM AND ALWAYS HAS BECAUSE OF
BOTH THE NATIONAL TEAM AND THEIR
OWN LEAGUE.
SO THEY'VE HAD DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAMS GOING ON FOR A LONG
TIME.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT REALLY AFTER
THE BREAKUP OF THE SOVIET UNION,
A LOT OF FUNDING DISAPPEARED,
WHEN THE DEFECTIONS SORT OF
RATCHETED UP QUITE A BIT AND
THAT WAS USUALLY GUYS LEAVING
THEIR TEAMS WHILE TRAVELING
SOMEWHERE.
THEN THE CUBAN OFFICIALS LOCKED
DOWN ON THE PLAYERS THEY BROUGHT
WITH THEM, AND THAT BEGAN THE
MORE DESPERATE ATTEMPTS.
THERE'S A SAYING NO ONE WALKS
OFF THE ISLAND.
SO PEOPLE GOT INVOLVED WITH
AGENTS, GOT INVOLVED WITH DRUG
SMUGGLERS, GOT INVOLVED WITH ALL
KINDS OF UNSAVORY PEOPLE, AND
THE MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PEOPLE
KNOW THIS.
THEY DON'T ALWAYS WANT TO KNOW
THE DETAILS.
>> Sreenivasan: WOULD THIS BE
DIFFERENT THAN HOW WE TREAT
PLAYERS COMING FROM JAPAN OR
SOUTH KOREA?
WOULD WE SET UP ACADEMIES LIKE
WE HAVE IN OTHER COUNTRIES AS
WELL?
>> THAT WILL BE UNDER
DISCUSSION.
I DON'T KNOW CUBAN OFFICIALS
WOULD WANT TO SCRAP THEIR SYSTEM
OR HAVE TWO SYSTEMS SIDE BY
SIDE.
THOSE THINGS WILL BE NEGOTIATED.
WE'LL SEE PROBABLY A MAINLY
LEAGUE BASEBALL TEAM, MAYBE
OUTSIDE OF TEN YEARS, BUT I
THINK YOU WILL BEGIN TO SEE A
NORMALIZING RELATION, WHERE BALL
PLAYERS WILL BE ABLE TO PLAY
WINTER BALL IN CUBA.
IT USED TO BE, QUITE FRANKLY,
SORT OF A WINTERING SEASON FOR A
LOT OF THE GREAT NEGRO PLAYERS
BECAUSE CUBA ALLOWED BLACK
PLAYERS AROUND 1900.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE ARE
MARKET FORCES AT WORK.
CUBA OBVIOUSLY HAS NO INCENTIVE
TO TRY TO HAVE ALL OF IT BEST
PLAYERS JUMP OVER TO THE UNITED
STATES RIGHT AWAY AND THEN IF
YOU BRING ALL THE PLAYERS OVER
AT THE SAME TIME YOU CAN'T SIGN
THE CONTRACTS LIKE THE ONE YOU
WERE TALKING ABOUT FOR MILLIONS
OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS BECAUSE
YOU HAVE AN INCREASE IN SUPPLY,
RIGHT?
>> RIGHT.
THAT'S GOING TO BE THE ULTIMATE
SUPPLY AND DEMAND, HOW MANY BALL
PLAYERS CAN CUBA PROVIDE.
THERE IS A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO
THINK THE TALENT CUPBOARD IS
EMPTY BECAUSEO A LOT OF THEIR
GREAT BALL PLAYERS HAVE MANAGED
TO GET OUT IN THE LAST COUPLE OF
YEARS.
THE NATIONAL TEAM IS NOT AS
FEARED AS IT WAS INTERNATIONAL
PLAY, BUT IT'S NOT JUST A TALENT
QUESTION THAT CUBANS STILL ALLOW
ALUMINUM BATS.
BUT THEY HAD AN OLDER SQUAD LATE
ON IN INTERNATIONAL PLAY IN THE
MID '90s AND THE EARLY
2000s.
SO THERE'S NOT A GOOD SENSE OF
HOW MUCH YOUNG TALENT IS IN THE
PIPELINE.
BUT LIKE VENEZUELA AND THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, I THINK IF
THERE'S A MORE ORDERLY PROCESS
AND A BETTER RESOURCE PROCESS,
WE'LL SEE MORE TALENT COME OUT
OF THE ISLAND.
PEOPLE IN THE U.S. DON'T ALWAYS
KNOW, O AS YOU MENTIONED IN THE
INTRODUCTION, THE GAME GOES BACK
200 YEARS THERE.
IT WAS A RALLYING POINT WHEN
THEY FOUGHT WAR OF INDEPENDENCE
AGAINST SPAIN BECAUSE CUBANS
DIDN'T WANT TO GO TO THE BULL
FIGHTS, THEY WANTED TO PLAY
BASEBALL 6789 SO IT BECAME AN
INDEPENDENT SOCIETY A LONG, LONG
TIME AGO.
>> Sreenivasan: THE UNITED
STATES KNOWS THIS ISN'T GOING TO
HAPPEN, MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
KNOWS THIS WON'T HAPPEN
OVERNIGHT.
WHAT THE MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
DOING TO PREPARE FOR WHAT MIGHT
HAPPEN FIVE OR TEN YEARS DOWN
THE LINE?
>> THEY'RE TRYING TO FIND A WAY
TO MINIMUM MUSE THE COST, I
GUARANTEE YOU.
THERE'S ALREADY BEEN TALK THE
NEXT BARGAIN AGREEMENT WITH THE
PLAYERS, THEY WILL TRY TO MAKE
EVERYONE OUTSIDE THE U.S.
SUBJECT TO THE SAME
INTERNATIONAL DRAFT, TAKING AWAY
THE INCENTIVE FOR THE SMUG LICK
PART.
BUT IF CUBAN PLAYERS WANT TO
LEAVE, THEY WILL PROBABLY HAVE
TO AGREE TO RETURN SOME PORTION
OF THEIR SALARY, WHAT THEY HAVE
BEEN DOING IN CURRENT PLACES
LIKE JAPAN.
SO ALL OF THESE THINGS ARE YET
TO BE WORKED OUT.
I THINK, AGAIN, MAJOR LEAGUE
BASEBALL WILL TRY TO FIND A KAY
TO BRING CUBAN BALL PLAYERS AND
TALENT OVER HERE IN LARGER
NUMBERS BUT AT A MUCH MORE
REASONABLE COST.
>> Sreenivasan: JIM LITKE OF
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT,
MARGARET WARNER SPEAKS WITH THE
AUTHOR OF A NEW BOOK ABOUT THE
SPECIAL BOND BETWEEN WARRIORS
WALKING ON FOUR LEGS, AND THOSE
BORN WITH JUST TWO.
>> HE'S A GOOD DOG, BEEN MY BEST
FRIEND OVER HERE.
>> Warner: FOR U.S. FORCES IN
IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN, MAN'S BEST
FRIEND HAS MORE THAN LIVED UP TO
THE BILLING.
SOME 2,500 DOGS HAVE ACCOMPANIED
SOLDIERS AND MARINES THERE ON
PATROL AND IN CLOSE COMBAT, LIKE
THE RAID TO KILL OSAMA BIN
LADEN.
>> Warner: IT'S THE LATEST JOB
FOR CANINES OVER CENTURIES OF
BATTLE, FROM ANCIENT ROME
THROUGH WORLD WAR I.
THE U.S. MILITARY FIRST
OFFICIALLY USED DOGS IN  WORLD
WAR II, AS SCOUTS AND ENEMY
TRACKER, AND AGAIN IN VIETNAM.
AND WHEN U.S. TROOPS IN IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN FACED A BARRAGE OF
IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES,
THE DOG AND HANDLER TEAMS PROVED
THE BEST DETECTION TOOL OF ALL.
REBECCA FRANKEL, A SENIOR EDITOR
AT "FOREIGN POLICY" MAGAZINE
WHOSE "WAR DOG OF THE WEEK" IS A
SIGNATURE ONLINE FEATURE, WRITES
ABOUT ALL THIS IN A NEW BOOK:
"WAR DOGS: TALES OF CANINE
HEROISM, HISTORY AND LOVE."
WE MET AT THE WORKING DOG
KENNELS OF THE QUANTICO MARINE
BASE OUTSIDE WASHINGTON.
>> THAT IS A GOOD DOG, THAT IS A
GOOD DOG.
>> Warner: AND SPOKE AT THE
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE MARINE
CORPS NEARBY.
>> Warner: REBECCA FRANKEL,
THANK YOU FOR BEING WITH US.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> Warner: YOU WRITE EARLY ON
THAT YOU THOUGHT YOU'D BE
WRITING ABOUT DOGS IN MILITARY
SERVICE, AND INSTEAD YOU FOUND
YOURSELF WRITING AS MUCH ABOUT
PEOPLE.
>> YEAH, I JOKE SOMETIMES THAT
YOU CAN'T REALLY INTERVIEW A
DOG.
THEY CERTAINLY HAVE THEIR OWN
STORIES, BUT ONCE I STARTED TO
TALK TO THEIR HANDLERS AND TO
TALK TO THE FAMILIES OF
HANDLERS, IT REALLY BECAME MORE
ABOUT WHAT THE DOG WAS DOING OR
BRINGING FORTH FROM THESE PEOPLE
AND HOW IT CHANGED THEIR LIVES.
>> Warner: AND IT IS WORTH
NOTING THAT THESE DOGS AND THEIR
HANDLERS, AS A TEAM, HAVE A VERY
DANGEROUS ROLE TO PLAY.
>> THEY DO.
THEIR JOB IS VERY DANGEROUS.
AND I THINK SOMETIMES THAT GETS
LOST A LITTLE BIT.
A HANDLER, AS MUCH A DOG, IS OUT
IN FRONT OF A PATROL.
YOU KNOW, THERE ARE BOMBS ON THE
ROAD THEN IT'S THEIR JOB TO FIND
THEM.
AND IT'S THEIR JOB NOT JUST TO
FIND PEOPLE SAFE, BUT TO MAKE
THEM FEEL AS THOUGH THEY'RE
TRUSTED.
THAT THEY CAN WALK DOWN THIS
ROAD.
THAT THEY'RE SAFE TO KEEP THEIR
EYES AND EARS ON OTHER THINGS,
AND SO IT'S QUITE A
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THEM TO BEAR.
BUT THEY'RE ALSO TRAINED TO
PROTECT THEM, TO PHYSICALLY USE
THE DOG AND ALL OF THE ASSETS
THAT  THEY HAVE, FROM THEIR
TEETH TO THEIR POWERFUL JAWS TO
JUST THE WEIGHT AND FORCE OF
THEIR BODY, TO PROTECT THEM.
>> Warner: SO WHAT MAKES A GREAT
WAR DOG AND WHAT MAKES A GREAT
HANDLER.
WHAT SETS THEM APART?
>> SO, I THINK A GOOD DOG IS
GOOD AT SMELLING, AND GOOD AT
TAKING COMMANDS.
AND THE HANDLER IS GOOD AT
RECOGNIZING THE TALENT OF THEIR
DOG.
BUT, IT'S A RELATIONSHIP SO THEY
HAVE TO KNOW EACH OTHER VERY
WELL.
THE CONNECTION BETWEEN THE DOG
AND THE HANDLER.
YOU CAN HAVE A REALLY, REALLY
TALENTED DOG, BUT IF THE HANDLER
AND THE DOG AREN'T SYNCED UP OR
IF THEY'RE NOT A SOLID TEAM,
THEN THE WORK THAT THEY DO IS
NOT GOING TO BE AS SOLID.
>> Warner: NOW, TIME AND AGAIN
IN THESE STORIES, AND IN THESE
CHAPTERS, YOU WOULD TURN TO THE
THEME OF TRUST.
WHAT ARE THEY TRUSTING ONE
ANOTHER FOR.
>> WELL, I THINK THAT A DOG THAT
IS MAYBE MORE EXPERIENCED IS
GOING TO KNOW WHETHER OR NOT
THEY'RE HANDLER IS CONFIDENT IN
WHAT THEY'RE DOING.
>> Warner: THAT'S A TOUGH TEST:
>> IT IS BECAUSE THEY CAN TELL.
THE HANDLERS WILL SAY OFTEN
TIMES THAT THE EMOTIONS RUN UP
AND DOWN THE LEASH.
IF A HANDLER IS NERVOUS OR
UNCERTAIN ABOUT WHAT THEY'RE
DOING, THE DOG IS GOING TO BE
PUT OFF BY THAT.
I'VE SEEN A VERY SEASONED DOG
NOT TAKE COMMANDS FROM THEIR
HANDLER BECAUSE THEY WERE
STUBBORN AND THEY FELT LIKE, "I
KNOW WHAT I'M DOING," SO THEY'LT
REALLY FOLLOW THROUGH.
>> Warner: THEY ALSO FEEL VERY
PROTECTIVE TOWARD EACH OTHER.
YOU HAVE ONE STORY ABOUT A YOUNG
MARINE NAMED COLTON RUSK AND HIS
BIG BLACK LAB.
>> YES, SO COLTON RUSK WAS A
HANDLER FROM TEXAS.
HE DEPLOYED ON HIS 20TH
BIRTHDAY, SO HE WAS A VERY YOUNG
MAN WHEN HE LEFT AND HE WENT
WITH AN IMPROVISED EXPLOSION
DETECTION DOG ELI, A BLACK LAB.
AND LABS ARE KNOWN TO BE
AFFECTIONATE.
SO, THEY WERE VERY CLOSE.
THEY WERE ON A PATROL AND COLTON
WAS SHOT BY A TALIBAN SNIPER,
AND HE SORT OF FELL WHERE HE WAS
STANDING. AND THE DOG'S REACTION
WAS TO CLIMB ON TOP OF HIM, ON
HIS FALLEN BODY, AND PROTECT
HIM.
AND IN THE FRENZY OF SORT OF THE
MOMENT AND THE CHAOS, THE DOG
WASN'T SURE, YOU KNOW, WHO COULD
BE TRUSTED.
SO, HE WOULDN'T LET ANYONE COME
NEAR HIM.
AND THEY WERE ABLE TO GET THE
DOG AWAY, AND THEY TRIED TO SAVE
HIM, BUT HE DIDN'T MAKE IT.
>> Warner: BUT THEN AT THE END
OF THE BOOK, ELI JOINS THE
FAMILY AND HE PROTECTS THEM
AGAIN, BUT IN A DIFFERENT WAY.
>> THE MARINE CORPS, AND OTHER
BRANCHES OF SERVICE, DON'T DO
THIS VERY OFTEN, WHERE THEY TAKE
A YOUNG DOG WHOSE IN THE MIDDLE
OF THEIR CAREER AND LET THEM
ADOPT OUT TO THE FAMILY, BUT
THEY DID IN THIS CASE.
AND, THE EFFECT I THINK THEY HAD
ON THEIR HOUSEHOLD, I THINK WAS
VERY PROFOUND.
JUST KNOWING THAT WE'LL HAVE A
LITTLE PIECE OF COLTON, IN ELI I
JUST WISH HE COULD TALK, AND
TELL US SOME STORIES.
CATHY RUSK, COLTON'S MOTHER,
SAID, FOR EXAMPLE, THAT WHEN
THEY BROUGHT ELI HOME, HE WENT
STRAIGHT TO COLTON'S ROOM.
AND SO FOR THEM, TO SORT OF SEE
THAT, I THINK, IT WAS A SIGN
THAT THEY HAD PART OF THEIR SON
BACK, AGAIN.
THEY HAVE A YOUNGER SON,
COLTON'S YOUNGER BROTHER, AND
ELI WOULD GET IN BED WITH HIM
EVERY NIGHT AND STAY IN BED WITH
UNTIL HE FELL ASLEEP.
AND CATHY SAYS THAT WHEN SHE HAS
TOUGH DAYS, THAT ELI WILL COME
AND FIND HER, AND HE JUST KIND
OF SITS WITH HER, AND KEEPS HER
COMPANY UNTIL SHE CAN GET
HERSELF OUT OF BED.
>> Warner: AND THE DOGS ARE AS
VULNERABLE TO THE EMOTIONAL OR
PSYCHOLOGICAL STRAIN OF WAR
THROUGH THEIR DEPLOYMENTS AS
SOME HUMANS.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THEY CALL IT CANINE PTSD OR
CPSTD.
I THINK IT WOULD BE A LITTLE BIT
FOOLISH TO THINK THAT A DOG, WHO
ARE SENTIENT BEINGS, THEY HAVE
EMOTIONS, OR AT LEAST I BELIEVE
THEY DO, COULD EXPERIENCE THE
SAME TENSION AND CHAOS AND LOUD
SOUNDS AND HAVING I.E.D.'S
EXPLODE NEAR THEM AND N BEOT
AFFECTED BY IT.
>> Warner: AND DEATH
>> YES, AND DEATH.
>> Warner: JUST OUTSIDE THE
NATIONAL MARINE CORPS MUSEUM
STANDS A MONUMENT, TO 25 DOGS
WHO DIED HELPING LIBERATE GUAM
IN WORLD WAR II, AND TO ALL
AMERICAN MILITARY DOGS SLAIN THE
DECADES SINCE.
WHEN DOGS DIE ON THE BATTLEFIELD
ARE THEY ALWAYS MEMORIALIZED?
>> THEY ARE, THE HANDLER WILL
GIVE A TALK; THEY'LL SAY WHAT
THE DOG MEANT TO THEM AND WHAT
THE DOG DID IN HIS OR HER CAREER
AND THEN EVERYONE IN THE UNIT OR
BATTALION COMMEMORATES THEM.
IT'S JUST LIKE ANY OTHER FALLEN
SERVICE MEMBER.
>> Warner: AND THAT WAS TRUE OF
IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN?
>> YES, IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN
>> Warner: HOW DOES THE MILITARY
LOOK ON THESE DOGS?
AS SERVICEMEN TO BE TAKEN CARE
OF WHEN THEY'RE DAMAGED OR AS A
PIECE OF EQUIPMENT TO BE USED
AND DISCARDED?
>> THEY ARE TREATED LIKE A
SERVICE MEMBER.
IF THEY DEPLOY WITH HANDLER,
THEY COME BACK WITH A HANDLER,
AS ONE MARINE SAID TO ME - WE
BRING EVERYBODY HOME, AND THAT
INCLUDES THAT DOGS.
>> Warner: SO, AS THE US GETS
OUT OF IRAQ, WINDING DOWN IN
AFGHANISTAN, WHAT IS HAPPENING
TO ALL THESE DOGS.
>> AND A LOT OF THESE DOGS
GETTING ADOPTED OUT, OR BEING
TRANSFERRED OVER TO HOMELAND
SECURITY OR POLICE CANINE UNITS,
WHICH IS WONDERFUL.
THESE ARE TRAINED WORKING DOGS
AND THEY DESERVE A PLACE TO
WORK.
>> Warner: IN YOUR CONCLUDING
CHAPTER YOU SAID, "TO KNOW WAR
DOGS IS NOT TO KNOW WAR, BUT
THEY CAN HELP US UNDERSTAND IT
BETTER".
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
>> I MEANT THAT I THINK THESE
ARE STORIES THAT ARE IMPORTANT
FOR US TO HEAR.
AND I THINK THAT SOMETIMES WE
ARE VERY DISTANT FROM THE
MILITARY AND CERTAINLY THE
SERVICE MEMBERS WHO HAVE BEEN
GOING OVER TO COMBAT, THEY
REPRESENT SUCH A SMALL
PROPORTION OF OUR OVERALL
POPULATION, AND I THINK TO SEE
DOGS ALSO, THE LEASH IS STILL
THERE.
SO IF YOU KNOW THE STORY OF THE
WAR DOG, AND I THINK INEVITABLY
YOU KNOW THE STORY OF THE PERSON
HOLDING THE LEASH, WHICH IS
IMPOANT.RT
>> Warner: REBECCA FRANKEL,
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, YOU CAN FIND
MORE FROM REBECCA FRANKEL ON THE
ENDURING  BOND BETWEEN A MARINE
AND HIS COMBAT DOG.
THAT'S ON OUR HOMEPAGE AT
pbs.org/newshour.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PRE-CHRISTMAS TORNADOES STRUCK
THE DEEP SOUTH, KILLING AT LEAST
TWO PEOPLE IN MISSISSIPPI.
THE U.S. ECONOMY GREW AT AN
ANNUAL RATE OF 5% OVER THE
SUMMER, THE MOST IN MORE THAN A
DECADE.
AND SONY PICTURES REVERSED
ITSELF AND ANNOUNCED A LIMITED
RELEASE OF "THE INTERVIEW", A
COMEDY ABOUT A PLOT TO KILL
NORTH KOREA'S LEADER.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW, A MARYLAND ARTIST
TURNS PLAIN OLD PLYWOOD INTO
STUNNING PIECES OF ABSTRACT
FURNITURE.
YOU CAN WATCH A VIDEO OF HIS
CREATIVE PROCESS, FROM OUR
PARTNERS AT MARYLAND PUBLIC
TELEVISION, ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
AND, SINCE POLITICS AND SPIRITS
OFTEN MIX THIS TIME OF YEAR, WE
VISITED A COUPLE OF FAMOUS
WATERING HOLES IN WASHINGTON TO
ASK REVELERS WHAT GIFTS THEY
THINK MEMBERS OF CONGRESS SHOULD
BE GETTING THIS YEAR.
THAT VIDEO AND MORE ARE ON OUR
WEB SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT AN
ELITE COLLEGE LIKE NO OTHER.
SMART STUDENTS, PRESTIGIOUS
FACULTY, BUT WITH A START-UP
MENTALITY THAT IS REJECTING
EVERY OTHER TRAPPING OF SCHOOL.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT